---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-24
labels:
  - Asking Questions
  - Answering Questions
  - Stack Overflow
---

why smart questions are important for smart software engineers, 
  - often be working in professional and busy environments even online
  - problem-solvers (sometimes problem may take some experiementing to do for anyone--don't want person you're asking to do it for you)
  - syntax and how data structures work is not abstract so easily documentable which means can easily find answer
  
how the chosen questions fulfill (or not) the precepts for smart questions, 
how the responses reflect the smartness (or lack thereof), and 
the insights you gained as a result of this experience. 


## 

During the times I struggle with homework in my college coursework, I occasionally contemplate how convenient it would be to have my course's professor and/or teaching assistant sitting next to me at the ready to answer absolutely whatever questions I have or to spot the issues I don't notice I'm having in my work. Among the many possible repercussions this could result in is developing the habit and knack of asking "bad questions". There isn't fault in asking questions about something we truly don't know or can't grasp no matter how simple others may say those questions are. What would be the wrong step to take, however, when asking questions is, for one thing out of many, a lack of effort to actively seek the answer out ourselves beforehand instead of immediately firing a question at an online forum or a person because they're the closest and fastest resource available. 

## Software Engineers and 

Developing the skills to ask "smart questions" is especially important for a software engineer. Questions in general range from abstract, philosophical, and thought-provoking topics to concrete, specific, and clear-cut topics with clear-cut "right or wrong" answers. Questions asked in software engineering are very often the latter as they deal topics such as syntax errors and how certain structures can be used to store data differently and would thus be easily documentable for others to look up with a simple and quick Google search. After all, programming languages and said structures were created by fellow humans, and they've documented how to use them in reference manuals. In addition, probably two of the most typical label for software engineers is problem-solvers and critical thinkers, and 

## Stack Overflow is a pool of knowledge to be appreciated.

Stack Overflow is a website for asking and answering questions on programming. 

## 

Here is the [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33653268/why-should-i-use-pointers-c) to the following post.

```
Q: Why should I use pointers? C++

I am kinda new to c++ and I don't get why should I use pointers and references?

for example Idon't get how this works

int a = 8;
int *p1;
p1 = &a;
```

Pointers and references are two fundamental and common topics in C++ programming. Consequently, because they're fundamental and common, information would surely be available and readily accessible through resources such as online tutorials, blogs, and reference manuals. The author of this question also seems to be asking for a general, introductory explanation on the purpose and definition of pointers and references. The aforementioned resources would also definitely carry explanations that would fulfill that general and introductory nature in addition to specific examples similar to the one provided in the author's post. 

```
What don't you get? This is very basic and has been discussed in many places including your textbook/reference manual
```

Stack Overflow is also not only a place to ask and answer questions but also a place to view questions and answers. As stated 

```
Possible duplicate of [the following phrase contains a link in the original comment] How do function pointers in C work? 
```

On the otherhand, if it was the case that the author wasn't able to grasp the explanations given after looking through, they should mention this also in their post. This would inform viewers that the author did indeed attempt to search for and understand the question beforehand and thus make viewers more inclined to answer the author's question. In addition, though it may seem relatively negligible since it doesn't necessarily affect the content of the question, correct grammar helps one's post exude a courteous and well-thought out question image     . Incorrect grammar on the otherhand would reflect the possible hastiness and disregard one typed out their post with 

## 

Here is the [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11227809/why-is-it-faster-to-process-a-sorted-array-than-an-unsorted-array) to the following post.

```
Q: Why is it faster to process a sorted array than an unsorted array?

Here is a piece of C++ code that seems very peculiar. For some strange reason, sorting the data miraculously makes the code almost six times faster.

#include <algorithm>
#include <ctime>
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    // Generate data
    const unsigned arraySize = 32768;
    int data[arraySize];

    for (unsigned c = 0; c < arraySize; ++c)
        data[c] = std::rand() % 256;

    // !!! With this, the next loop runs faster
    std::sort(data, data + arraySize);

    // Test
    clock_t start = clock();
    long long sum = 0;

    for (unsigned i = 0; i < 100000; ++i)
    {
        // Primary loop
        for (unsigned c = 0; c < arraySize; ++c)
        {
            if (data[c] >= 128)
                sum += data[c];
        }
    }

    double elapsedTime = static_cast<double>(clock() - start) / CLOCKS_PER_SEC;

    std::cout << elapsedTime << std::endl;
    std::cout << "sum = " << sum << std::endl;
}
- Without std::sort(data, data + arraySize);, the code runs in 11.54 seconds.
- With the sorted data, the code runs in 1.93 seconds.

Initially, I thought this might be just a language or compiler anomaly. So I tried it in Java.

import java.util.Arrays;
import java.util.Random;

public class Main
{
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
        // Generate data
        int arraySize = 32768;
        int data[] = new int[arraySize];

        Random rnd = new Random(0);
        for (int c = 0; c < arraySize; ++c)
            data[c] = rnd.nextInt() % 256;

        // !!! With this, the next loop runs faster
        Arrays.sort(data);

        // Test
        long start = System.nanoTime();
        long sum = 0;

        for (int i = 0; i < 100000; ++i)
        {
            // Primary loop
            for (int c = 0; c < arraySize; ++c)
            {
                if (data[c] >= 128)
                    sum += data[c];
            }
        }

        System.out.println((System.nanoTime() - start) / 1000000000.0);
        System.out.println("sum = " + sum);
    }
}
With a somewhat similar but less extreme result.

My first thought was that sorting brings the data into the cache, but then I thought how silly that is because the array was just generated.

- What is going on?
- Why is it faster to process a sorted array than an unsorted array?
- The code is summing up some independent terms, and the order should not matter.
```
The focal point on how this author's question is a "smart question" would perhaps be effort they put into searching for the answer to their question on their own first. Though the syntax of the code written in Java and the syntax of the code written in Javascript don't appear to be too painstakingly different from each other, this, nevertheless, most likely took the author some time to rewrite, and perhaps even re-test, the entire code in order to test out his theory. Including the results of testing out one's own theories as attempts to answer their own question doesn't only reflect effort, but also assists viewers who might not know the answer off the top of their head in crossing out possibilities to ponder over, which may have happened for some viewers of this author's question. This topic, however, can be considered another fundamental and common one in general programming and could have thus be researched easily over online tutorials, blogs, and possibly even previous Stack Overflow posts or other programming forum website posts after the author tested out his theories. 

## 














