---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-25
labels:
  - skills
  - personal development
---

Third, create a technical essay (approximately 3-4 paragraphs) that discusses your interests in software engineering and what kinds of skills and experiences you hope to develop in future.


It wasn't until I visited my high school's club fair during my sophomore year there that I knew what Computer Science was. I think the main thing that fascinated me enough to make me choose Computer Science as my major a year later was that I could create things with it. Learning a new programming language 


Right now, what interests me in software engineering is the idea of creating something rather than the purpose that people's create software for. The act of creating something is what interests me. i like . I'm am content with that right now. Maybe later I'll start worrying I am content with learning new computer science stuff without deciding why im doing it.fsd,,,,,eeeeeeeee

I think the main thing that attracted me to study programming is the vast assortment of things that can be created with it. 

While 









 

Adaptability


Contrary to what many and I used to believe, "tech people" do indeed need to communicate and work well with others, especially if those "tech people" are software engineers. Throughout my education, I've gotten accustomed to the times when I was required to work individually, and, in fact, I learned to like it. I thus need to work hard in learning to like working in a team also if I want to do software engineering. In order to gradually improve communication and teamwork skills, I plan to 

Working in a team of people with a variety of characters and possibly interacting with clientele with a variety of specifications for their software would also require adaptability and the ability to take and process criticism. 







