---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-02-21
labels:
  - UI Frameworks
  - Semantic UI
---

## sodfmsdf
Being tasked and wanting to do both frontend and backend development reminds me of a student. A student may find themselves joining clubs and taking classes they aren't required to take because they're interested in them, and this is in addition to the classes they do. The latter are what "matters" because they are what give one the credits needed to graduate with whatever degree aimed for, and the more time and effort taken away by the extracurriculars and classes one wants to take

...There probably might not be a good compromise where the workload is reduced while still enjoying one's interests , but  One might think UI frameworks resemble templates too much and that this will hinder creativity and preferences as a result, but the libraries of those frameworks are extensive in not only elements themselves, but in their variations. Spending time on the pixelated spacing and layout of elements probably isn't part of most people's desired creative process on the otherhand, and so, in addition to their extensive libraries, UI frameworks eases the workload while staying clear of hindering creativity by handling those things. 

## omfdsklfm
When I began my first Software Engineering course, I realized just how many tools a developer needs to know how to use, and it was pretty daunting. Up until that moment, I've learned mainly how to code and the theoretical aspects of Computer Science. I knew how to implement arrays in both Java and C. I knew what a linked list was. I knew how the general process of algorithm runtime analysis. What I didn't know at that moment was how to use GitHub and Chrome Developer Tools. Daunting, but pretty cool I thought. 

so I guess that's why it struck me a bit odd as to not learning UI frameworks 

## But they might not know everything we want.
I haven't used any UI frameworks extensively enough to get a good measure, but one of the questions on my mind while I was first learning what a UI framework was how limited can one be. In Semantic UI, I might not like, let's say, the width of the margins preset by `ui menu`. I might want a different font for `ui label` or an even larger size than the one provided in `ui huge header`. I'm pretty sure there's ways in Semantic UI to accomodate the aforementioned preferences, but my point is that what if there might be certain variations and/or states one might desire for an element that isn't available in a framework? Especially when the unavailable thing desired is an actual element, such as a carousel or slideshow presentation of images, which I was searching for in Semantic UI in my attempt to reimplement Blue Bunny Ice Cream's homepage. 



