---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Design Patterns
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-04-27
labels:
  - Design Patterns
  - Software Engineering
---

The field of software engineering has developed enormously ever since the first computers and automating-machines have been created. Many sub-fields have grown from it, its impact has extended through many areas of profession, and it has helped alleviate a broad-range of issues in society. Because of how complex, overarching, and evergrowing it is, certain standards must be set and continually revised in to improve effciency and effectiveness in the products software engineering creates. One of those standards is design patterns.     There are a number of different design patterns, each of which are described by software-engineering-specific terminology despite the general-sounding name of "design patterns". The overall idea, however, of what each design patterns are meant to tackle and why they were created in the first place can very much resemble everyday things.

Paintings and artifacts are one of a kind and sometimes kept in tight security especially if they're quite high in age and if they're the products of well-known people. Those pieces of art aren't used merely as the lastest eye-pleasing spectacle either--these products are the subjects of extensive and long-lasting study in fields such as art history for people across the globe. Not only is it due to these reasons why ounterfeiting these products is illegal, but it's also due to the concept of authorship. They're thus pretty similar to singletons, a design pattern. Singletons act as a kind of global variable for which other functionalities can "connect" to in order to create other functionalities or to extend their own, like how pieces of art provide a subject of study for anyone interested. Just as how only one copy or a painting or artifact can exist, only one instance or "copy" of a singleton can exist. I believe MongoDB collections are what I've used the most so far in regards to using singletons. There's a lot of sense in restricting the functionality of collections to that of singletons because things could get confusing and redundant if one were allowed to subscribe to two or more collections that are used for the same exact purpose and contain the same exact type of data. 

In middle school and high school, I sometimes daydreamed during lectures. I wondered what was the point if my teachers were going to be "repeating" pretty much the same information that could have been found in the textbook that the students had to read anyway. This mindset of mind continued into my first semester of college and died q quick death in that same semester after I received a failing grade in two classes. During that period of attempting to teach myself calculus from a textbook I often didn't understand, I realized that I would've been in less pain and spent less time trying to figure how to do a homework problem if I were to have paid attention in class. That's because--this was the moral at the end of the day for me--teachers are there to organize "raw knowledge" into presentable, understandable, and engaging forms for students to learn and utilize. This is the correlation between teachers and the model-view-controller design pattern. As far as what I understand what the MVC design pattern is, one situation in which MVC was prevalent in my coding was presenting certain data that met certain criterias from the total amount of data available in a collection to users, such as when those criterias came in the form of filters. It'd almost unusable even if an application works if the user is overwhelmed by a flood of information that is tedious to organize and sift through.

