---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-02-06
labels:
  - Coding Standards
---

set rules makes it readable and understandable, uniformity (don't have to wonder creatively how to format this especially when trying to make an impression) (reminds me of uniforms in school)


readable and understandable

uniform; dont have to wonder creatively how to format (just wanted to submit jsfiddle cause didn't want to think about own formatting)

probably does help learn new language (semicolon and quotes in python)

When I first started programming I was pretty neutral with following coding standards--it was indeed tedious to me, but at the same time, I did see the advantages to it. My Software Engineering course started off with learning JavaScript with JSFiddle, and the lines of code in the assignments started to get longer and complicated with a new lesson. This was when I realized I missed having a set of coding standards 

## The rare occasion where it's okay to have someone do the work for you
Following coding standards may actually be less work than many may think--the rules for formatting one's code are already laid out, and unlike with theoretical concepts of Computer Science, all we have to do is blindly follow them. One of the things while coding in JSFiddle that made me wish that

In fact, coding in an IDE is probably when my appreciation for coding standards is at its highest. 


And this trade-off seems pretty worth it to me. 

Personally, one of the biggest reasons for my appreciation of coding standards is not having to wonder after every line of code how to make it "presentable". Coding standards doesn't only promote the importance of readble code, but it also provides a single set of rules to do that. In other words, the work is already done for me in regards to making my code look presentable--I just have to pull up the documentation and follow it. Moreover, coding standards also tells when something's wrong--you don't have to look up anything with an IDE. When my Software Engineering course was using JSFiddle, I felt uncomfortable looking at how inconsistent my code was. Yet, I really didn't want to be bothered with coming up with my own "set of standards" to format it after finishing the grueling aspect of coding. In that way, coding standards are similar to school uniforms but different. I get the advantage of just throwing on the same clothes everyday and the restriciton of creativity--with coding standards I get the advantage of that uniformity and not being able to be creative. Read, copy, done. 

## Learning a new language is not re-learning a previous one
The impact may be minute, but it is possible for coding standards to help others learn a new programming language. I came from a background of semicolon-endings before learning Python--I was putting in extra work for myself, but I just couldn't get out of the habit of putting semicolons while programming in Python (something I'm grateful for, however, since it saves me hard-to-discover synta errors in other cases). I could get away with that because Python didn't throw any erorrs, and so I did. If I remembered to not put semicolons on the rare occassions after a line of code, then I didn't while leaving my previous semicolons. Then I realized how inconsistent my code looked overall, and that if I were to learn Python, I should probably learn how to write Python code, even if I got down things like dicitonaries. "Am I really learning Python?" and that was when I wish i had a coding standard setup for it. 

## Don't let your effort and time go to waste 
Imagine having a coding assignment due in a week. It's the day before it's due, and you started on it and wrote most of the code four days ago. You aim to finish look through that work you've done so far 


Imagine having a coding project that took, let's say, a week to complete; it's been sufficiently tested, it works, and it's ready to be let out into the world or submitted to your professor for grading. 

Coding standards can make code longer or shorter, but in both cases, easy to look at too. No spaces between assignment operations for example makes it look cluttered. In addition, it also helps distinguish from keyword parameters. Also reflects to other people reading code professionalism, according to my 212 pforesso. Don't want to be frustrated yourself and others when trying to read already complex code and when also on a time crunch. That habit then transfers over to other things. the tediousness and pain from trying to adapt to coding standards won't be permanent and catch you off guard one day compared to badly-styled code. Nesting --> where's the other curly brace? Where's the variable name for this value? 


