---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: There's Ethics in Programming Too
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-04-18
labels:
  - Ethics
  - Software Engineering
---

Before starting this essay, read through the “Foundations” experiences in the Ethics module, and the two “Code of Ethics” readings.

Now review through the Case Studies (Haraassment, Privacy, Autonomous Cars, Facebook, etc), and pick one of these studies to focus on for your technical essay.

Write an interesting, informative technical essay about ethics in software engineering. You should begin by discussing, in your own words, what you think “ethics” means in the context of software engineering. Then, describe the situation you chose to analyze with respect to its ethical implications. Finally, present your conclusions: what is your personal opinion as to the ethical stance to be taken?






It's probably safe to say that society won't ever escape the clutches of technology, and the impacts of technology can be helpful or destructive. A software engineer thus holds destructive power in their hands, and it's important that he/she knows that. When he/she does, society just has to hope that he/she will wield that power responsibly. To me, being an ethical software engineer at the very least means creating software that doesn't harm society or the environment. In order to uphold that goal, an ethical software engineer must have and develop the ability to think for oneself; qualities of justice, honesty, and accountability; and willingness to participate in society. 

["The code that I'm still ashamed of"](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e) is one example of how blindly following instructions, even ones given from the boss, can have devastating results. In the case of the former boss of the author of the article, he/she either 1) wasn't aware also or 2) didn't not care for whatever impacts would happen so long as the financial agenda was fulfilled. Work is the livelihood of humans, and the boss is the boss. That's why it would take a good amount of tenacity to be able to walk away from the work that infringes on one's sense of moral responsibility. Moreover, one would need a strong sense of moral responsibility in the first place and to be able to stop and "question the man" first. 

"The code that I'm still ashamed of" also shows how important it is to be involved in society to some degree because software engineers basically make stuff for said society. We can't always rely on intermediate people like bosses to know what's good for society, and neither can we rely on society themselves sometimes to know what's best for itself unfortunately. The logical step to take to remedy that fact is 


